rust-engine/README.md, before:

# Rust Engine API and Worker

## Overview

- HTTP API (warp) under /api for file management and query lifecycle
- MySQL for metadata, Qdrant for vector similarity
- Background worker resumes queued work and re-queues stale InProgress jobs at startup

## Environment variables

- DATABASE_URL: mysql://USER:PASS@HOST:3306/DB
- QDRANT_URL: default <http://qdrant:6333>
- GEMINI_API_KEY: used for Gemini content generation (optional in demo)

## Endpoints (JSON)

- POST /api/files (multipart)
  - Form: file=@path
  - Response: {"success": true}

- GET /api/files/list
  - Response: {"files": [{"id","filename","path","description"}]}

- GET /api/files/delete?id=<file_id>
  - Response: {"deleted": true|false}

- POST /api/query/create
  - Body: {"q": "text", "top_k": 5}
  - Response: {"id": "uuid"}

- GET /api/query/status?id=<query_id>
  - Response: {"status": "Queued"|"InProgress"|"Completed"|"Cancelled"|"Failed"|"not_found"}

- GET /api/query/result?id=<query_id>
  - Response (Completed):
    {
      "result": {
        "summary": "Found N related files",
        "related_files": [
          {"id","filename","path","description","score"}
        ],
        "relationships": "...",
        "final_answer": "..."
      }
    }

- GET /api/query/cancel?id=<query_id>
  - Response: {"cancelled": true}

## Worker behavior

- Ensures Qdrant collection exists (dim 64, cosine)
- Re-queues InProgress older than 10 minutes
- Processing stages:
  1) Set InProgress
  2) Embed query text (demo now; pluggable Gemini later)
  3) Search Qdrant top_k (default 5)
  4) Join file metadata (MySQL)
  5) Gemini step: relationship analysis (strictly from provided files)
  6) Gemini step: final answer (no speculation; say unknown if insufficient)
  7) Persist result (JSON) and set Completed
  - Checks for cancellation between stages

## Local quickstart

1. docker compose up -d mysql qdrant
2. set env DATABASE_URL and QDRANT_URL
3. cargo run

## Notes

- Replace demo embeddings with real Gemini calls for production
- Add auth to endpoints if needed (API key/JWT)

Commit message:

Prepared demo files and demo explanation file. Added debug only button to trigger demo file ingest on the server to queue and prepare the files. Added small expressjs server for talking between the web app and the rust engine containers.

rust-engine/README.md, after:

# Rust Engine API and Worker

## Overview

- HTTP API (warp) under /api for file management and query lifecycle
- MySQL for metadata, Qdrant for vector similarity
- Background worker resumes queued work and re-queues stale InProgress jobs at startup

## Environment variables

- DATABASE_URL: mysql://USER:PASS@HOST:3306/DB
- QDRANT_URL: default <http://qdrant:6333>
- GEMINI_API_KEY: used for Gemini content generation (optional in demo)

## Endpoints (JSON)

- POST /api/files (multipart)
  - Form: file=@path
  - Response: {"success": true}

- GET /api/files/list
  - Response: {"files": [{"id","filename","path","description"}]}

- GET /api/files/delete?id=<file_id>
  - Response: {"deleted": true|false}

- POST /api/query/create
  - Body: {"q": "text", "top_k": 5}
  - Response: {"id": "uuid"}

- GET /api/query/status?id=<query_id>
  - Response: {"status": "Queued"|"InProgress"|"Completed"|"Cancelled"|"Failed"|"not_found"}

- GET /api/query/result?id=<query_id>
  - Response (Completed):
    {
      "result": {
        "summary": "Found N related files",
        "related_files": [
          {"id","filename","path","description","score"}
        ],
        "relationships": "...",
        "final_answer": "..."
      }
    }

- GET /api/query/cancel?id=<query_id>
  - Response: {"cancelled": true}

## Worker behavior

- Ensures Qdrant collection exists (dim 64, cosine)
- Re-queues InProgress older than 10 minutes
- Processing stages:
  1) Set InProgress
  2) Embed query text (demo now; pluggable Gemini later)
  3) Search Qdrant top_k (default 5)
  4) Join file metadata (MySQL)
  5) Gemini step: relationship analysis (strictly from provided files)
  6) Gemini step: final answer (no speculation; say unknown if insufficient)
  7) Persist result (JSON) and set Completed
  - Checks for cancellation between stages

## Local quickstart

1. docker compose up -d mysql qdrant
2. set env DATABASE_URL and QDRANT_URL
3. cargo run
4. (optional) import demo PDFs
   - Ensure demo files are located in `rust-engine/demo-data` (default) or set `DEMO_DATA_DIR` env var to a folder containing PDFs.
   - Call the endpoint:
     - POST <http://localhost:8000/api/files/import-demo>
     - Optional query `?force=1` to overwrite existing by filename
   - Or run the PowerShell helper:
     - `./scripts/import_demo.ps1` (adds all PDFs in demo-data)
     - `./scripts/import_demo.ps1 -Force` (overwrite existing)

## Notes

- Replace demo embeddings with real Gemini calls for production
- Add auth to endpoints if needed (API key/JWT)
